#summary BCAL LiDAR Tools in Research

= Scientific Publications =

This section lists scientific papers that reported using BCAL LiDAR Tools for their LiDAR data processing and analysis. 

  * Streutker, D. and Glenn, N., 2006. [http://bcal.geology.isu.edu/manuscripts/Streutker_2006_RSE.pdf LiDAR measurement of sagebrush steppe vegetation heights]. Remote Sensing of Environment, 102, 135-145.

  * Long, B., Cottin, A., Collin, A., 2007. [http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=04423518 What optech's bathymetric LiDAR sees underwater]. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2007. IGARSS 2007. pp. 3170-3173.

  * Yun, Y., and Ying, L., 2009. [http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/ielx5/5300806/5300807/05304531.pdf A Novel Deformable Model for Urban Vegetation Detection Using LiDAR Data]. 2nd International Congress on Image and Signal Processing, 2009. CISP '09. pp. 1-5.

   * Glenn, N.F., Spaete, L.P., Sankey, T.T., Derryberry, D.R., Hardegree, S.P., Mitchell, J.J., 2011. [http://bcal.geology.isu.edu/docs/Glennetal2010JAE.pdf Errors in LiDAR-derived shrub height and crown area on sloped terrain], Journal of Arid Environments, 75 (4), 377-382.

  * Spaete, L., Glenn, N., Derryberry, D., Sankey, T., Mitchell, J., Hardegree, S., 2011. [http://bcal.geology.isu.edu/docs/Spaete%20et%20al%202010.pdf Vegetation and slope effects on accuracy of a LiDAR-derived DEM in the sagebrush steppe]. Remote Sensing Letters, 2 (4), 317-326.

  * Tinkham W.T.,	Huang H.,	Smith A.M.S.,	Shrestha R.,	Falkowski M.J.,	Hudak A.T.,	Link T.E.,	Glenn N.F.,	Marks D.G., 2011. [http://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/3/3/638/ A Comparison of Two Open Source LiDAR Surface Classification Algorithms]. Remote Sensing, 3(3):638-649.

  * Bright, B.C., Hicke, J.A., Hudak, A.T., 2012. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2012.05.016 Estimating aboveground carbon stocks of a forest affected by mountain pine beetle in Idaho using lidar and multispectral imagery]. Remote Sensing of Environment, 124: 270-281.

  * Bright, B.C., Hicke, J.A., Hudak, A.T., 2012. [http://www.fs.fed.us/rm/pubs_other/rmrs_2012_bright_b002.pdf Landscape-scale analysis of aboveground tree carbon stocks affected by mountain pine beetles in Idaho]. Environ. Res. Lett. 7, 045702, DOI:10.1088/1748-9326/7/4/045702.

  * Magarick, J.F., 2012. [http://hdl.handle.net/1920/8015 Improving Vegetation and Background Discrimination from Hyperspectral Imaging (HSI) and Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) Fusion Using an Added Shortwave Infrared (SWIR) HSI Component]. Master of Science Thesis, George Mason University, Virginia.

  * Sankey, J.B., Law, D.J., Breshears, D.D., Munson, S.M., Webb, R.H., 2013. [http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/grl.50356/abstract Employing lidar to detail vegetation canopy architecture for prediction of aeolian transport]. Geophysical Research Letters. DOI: 10.1002/grl.50356

===Notes===
Because most of publications from BCAL use the LiDAR tools, only those papers that describe or test algorithms used in the tools are listed. If you have used BCAL LiDAR Tools for your research, please send the publication link to bcal@isu.edu. Complete list of BCAL publications is available at [http://bcal.geology.isu.edu/research/publications http://bcal.geology.isu.edu/research/publications].